what looks good:
1. at some fnctions in BookingRepository class, code is  commented, which makes it easy for understanding for every developer. so if changes are required to later any other developer can also understands it.
2. Repository design pattern is good and easy to use, and changes can be done easily, even if client says to change 
the database, by this deisgn pattern we can encounter that requirement change also. it helps to avoid redundancy and save time of developer to code. good for handling business logic. 
3. Good to use resource controller, help with built-in methods to store, create,edit update.and it is helpfull for routing in web.php. 
4. Error handling with try-catch blocks in resendSMSNotifications() save us from fata error which is good.
5. using PHP helpers make code easy to change and helps to avoid redundancy (writing same code for different parameters), it saved time and avoid repeated code in class.
6. at some places private fncitons have been used which are chunks of a big function, it helps to avoid reducndancy and make code fast working, which is also good as per my analysis. 
7. Jobs hae been used to handle the load, which helps to make response fast and easy, using jobs makes server always active for responding to requests. 



what i think needs to be improved in both classes. 


I have here highlighted major chagnes that need to be done for refactoring or optimizng the code.
1. I see using env(),  request(), which is not good practice, instead of this config() can be used by making a php class in config folder and accessing key,values.
and for request it must be validated or it will be kind of valunerable i think. 
2. $data['anyIndex'], is used many where, what if index doesnt exist, it will give fata-error, we can check this with like isset() or with ternary operator. 
3. also i think direct #e->getMessage(), must not be sent, as it can lead to some kind of inner table name, column name, data attribute name etc.
4. if else conditions with direct 'yes' , 'no' are written which i think are not good for future changes if required. 
5. response returned must be some kind of json formate or with formmated array, if needed, returing response like this return ($response), will be
no use on front-end or if it is laravel API project. reponse code or some kind of flag message with message string will be good. 
6. distanceFeed() has too many if else, this redundancy makes response slow when requesting to server. it can be handled with ternary oeprator. 
7. mapped and switch statement use instead of if else is always good option. 
8. there were un used variables which i have removed. also there are some redundant code which i have removed or comnmented how it should be( where code is long)
9. many places if else unnecessary statemts are there, i have tried to remoe many and added ternary opertaors there or swtich staments. 
10.  funciotns ignoreThrottle, ignoreExpired and ignoreExpiring must also be converted to single function and paramter can be passed to ignore. no use of using separate functoins. 
11. In booking repository i have used comments to tell where refactoring is needed for code.
12. 